README.md, before:

# FIT3162-NLP
I'm a Final Year Get Me Out of Here

# TO INSTALL
Python 3.x must be used
If using system with Python 2.x and Python 3.x use `python3` command instead of `python`

## SCI-KIT LEARN and NLTK
```
pip install -U numpy scipy scikit-learn nltk
```

If you are using a unix system, use `pip3` command

If pip is not installed:
Ubuntu/Debian: `sudo apt-get install python3-pip`
Fedora: `dnf install python3-pip`

## Download Corpora and Data for NLTK
Go to Python interpreter (type `python` or `python3` in cmd/terminal) and type:

```
import nltk
download()
```

Then download all, or as necessary.

# TO TEST
Go to Python interpreter and type:

```
import numpy, scipy, nltk, sklearn
```

# TO RUN

1. Run the ClassifierProcess.py file first to initially train classifier, arguments is english, spanish or both

    ```
    python ClassifierProcess.py english|spanish|both
    ```

2. Run the main.py file with text file as argument to be processed, as well as language

    ```
    python main.py file.txt english|spanish
    ```

Commit message:

ngrams, simple model and config fies
1. finished n-gram feature set functions
2. created simple classifier with temporary data
3. created simple main file to test with temporary data
4. created config file for fine tuning across all files
5. added documentation for all files applicable and readme.md

README.md, after:

# FIT3162-NLP
I'm a Final Year Get Me Out of Here

# TO INSTALL
Python 3.x must be used
If using system with Python 2.x and Python 3.x use `python3` command instead of `python`

## SCI-KIT LEARN and NLTK
```
pip install -U numpy scipy scikit-learn nltk
```

If you are using a unix system, use `pip3` command

If pip is not installed:
Ubuntu/Debian: `sudo apt-get install python3-pip`
Fedora: `dnf install python3-pip`

## Download Corpora and Data for NLTK
Go to Python interpreter (type `python` or `python3` in cmd/terminal) and type:

```
import nltk
download()
```

Then download all, or as necessary.

# TO TEST
Go to Python interpreter and type:

```
import numpy, scipy, nltk, sklearn
```

# TO RUN
0. Check `config.py` for options to fine-grain classifier options
   
1. Run the ClassifierProcess.py file first to initially train classifier, arguments is english, spanish or both

    ```
    python ClassifierProcess.py english|spanish|both
    ```

2. Run the main.py file with text file as argument to be processed, as well as language

    ```
    python main.py file.txt english|spanish
    ```
